DECO2500 INTERVIEW QUESTIONS
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS & SOCIAL MEDIA USAGE
5 BLIND MICE

BENJAMIN ROSS


1. Has social media ever gotten in the way of your sleep, uni work, or other parts of your daily life? What did that look like?

Yeah, I honestly use it to procrastinate often. I've had many late nights scrolling, sometimes in procrastination for the next day, or just out of boredom. I always pick it up while studying, which more often than not doesnt help.

2. How does your relationship with social media influence your relationship with physical activity?

Not too much. Sometimes I'll see things that inspire me, but I choose to leave it out of the time I have dedicated to exercise.

3. Has social media ever shaped how you spent time with friends or family, whether positively or negatively? What happened?

Both. Without social media I probably wouldn't have the strength in relationships I do because of easy contact with everyone. But at the same time, there's been a couple of times years ago where I found myself sucked into it while out with friends or with family, less so now though, and I see other people doing it often. So when together, mostly negative, but when apart, mostly positive.

4. Have you ever tried to cut back on social media or set boundaries around it? Walk me through what you tried and how it went.

It's pretty much 100 or nothing for me. If I don't want to use it, the most effective method for me is making it a point to occupy my time with anything but social media, which signifcantly cuts it down to pretty much no use outside of replying to friends. If I go 50/50 with my intent, I always find myself using it.

5. Have you ever hit a screen time limit or been locked out of an app? What did you do? If that hasn't happened, what do you think you would actually do if your phone cut you off?

I've used apple's built in screen limit thing, but I got into a habit of just instantly clicking ignore for the next few hours and continued using it anyway. The self-motivation really has to be there. I've had other blockers before that required me to do puzzles, memorisation games, or to enter a secret phrase I had written down, but I eventually either got tired of it and unmotivated to have it, or they started charging for it so I stopped using it.

6. The last time you opened social media, what were you doing beforehand? What motivates you to reach for it?

I honestly can't really remember. Most of the time I pick it up out of boredom. It's a default distraction.

7. Walk me through a recent time where you sat down to quickly check social media and ended up staying much longer. What kept you there?

Probably today. I picked it up while studying, and used it for probably 30min, otherwise valuable time I could've had. It didn't feel great because I would've been better off taking a break doing something less stimulating, like a purposeful break.

8. Think of the last time you came away from social media feeling good, and the last time you came away feeling worse. What was different about each?

Sometimes there's good things to see on social media, feel-good type of videos, and if I'm not greedily consuming media and leave after that it's pretty good. I often feel worse after I use it too much, find myself wasting time.

